for many people God is the
strongest belief they have but
how does your brain conceive of
the very idea of God
what happens when you actually
try to draw the divine
dr. Andrew Newberg from
Jefferson University Hospital
has been trying to figure that
out
we've asked a few people of
various ages to draw God for the
break we also asked you how do
you envision the almighty did it
look like an old man in a cloud
a beautiful scene from nature or
something more abstract
let's take a look at what our
volunteers came up with and then
we'll reveal what your image of
God says about your brain
all right and could ask everyone
to put their pencils crayons
brushes down
I what did you draw
thank you God and had been and
like a bridge leading at and the
sun shining down
I do a kind of a judeo-christian
kind of God looking over our
realm my home
it's my heaven
you know everything else that
happens around us know what I
think God means is that looks
like it's much more of an idea
than a person and basically all
the colors work is on everyone's
different ideas of what God is
what it means to me as they got
his love and they encompass of
different colors
I drew big ? few years ago I
would have just left it blank
incredibly
when asked to envision God of
all the seemingly infinite
possibilities
people really only draw one of
three things there are certain
kind of general categories that
people think about God from and
one of them is the idea of God
as a kind of person we see a
face we see eyes
we see up an actual person it's
just easier for us as human
beings to relate to something
which is infinite in a very
personal kind of way
to start virtually all the
younger artists depict God with
a face or some anthropic quality
now as people kind of move away
from thinking about God only has
a person we start to see more of
a symbol like the cross or
perhaps clouds and then
sometimes we start to see just
nature itself and finally we
start to see people moving into
a more abstract way of thinking
about God different swirls
colors a heart even a question
mark
was that true in your images at
home
did your picture of any higher
power look like a person or
nature or something more
abstract science shows that the
shift to more abstract thinking
about God occurs around 12 years
of age
what might drive this
development in your brain
according to dr. newburgh the
vision of God as a human figure
is often aligned with a wrathful
more authoritarian view of God
and this picture of God may
cause primitive parts of your
brain to release stress inducing
neuro chemicals changing your
picture of God is something more
abstract may in fact cause you
to be more optimistic and
faithful
so ultimately this tells us
something about how human beings
actually perceive God think
about God think about God
visually which is obviously one
of our most powerful senses that
we use to understand our world
maybe when it comes to your
brain the old saying is true
seeing is believing